The '''2011 January Lispy Game Jam''' is a fun, seven-day, online challenge for lisp hackers to produce computer games using a lisp variant.

'''The Chosen Theme'''
Thematic: Restaurant
Gameplay: Side scrolling
Technical: No bitmap (image files)

== When and where ==

* The event is penciled in to start on the 10th January (exact time TBC), and will run for 7 days.
* The competition is entirely run online.  Chat about it on IRC at #lispgames on chat.freenode.net and follow [http://twitter.com/lispgames lispgames on Twitter].

== How to enter ==

* Build a game using a lisp language while the competition is on, and publish it somewhere.
* Register on this wiki and add your details below by the day before the competition, currently Sunday, January 9th.

== Rules ==

* Use a lisp variant as the primary language to build your game within the chosen theme.  That can include Common Lisp, Scheme, Clojure, Emacs Lisp, or even your own lisp-like invention.  The rest of the technology is up to you.

== Themes ==

The theme will probably involve three elements, a combination of; one thematic, one gameplay & one technical, as outlined [http://globalgamejam.org/wiki/content-theme-competition-restraints-tracks here]. Remember all themes are open to your interpretation, creativity is king. 

'''Please add your theme element suggestions below''' (N.B. A random combination will be selected for the competition)

; Thematic
: Love, Animals, Magic, Christmas, Living dead, Restaurant, Tanks, Darkness, Fairies, Fantasy, Gold, Turtles, Space, Disease, War, Black and White, Sport, Vikings, Sci-Fi, Yellow
; Gameplay
: Minimal interaction, Management, Realtime, Turn-based, Side scrolling, Sidekick (co-pilot AI character or Player 2), Survival, One Life, Regeneration, Vertical, Character development, Economy
; Technical
: Never the same play twice, Same game everytime, Things break if you hit them, Everything respawns, One of the powerups/items reverses the controls, Hexagonal maps, Constant speeding up of gameplay, No bitmap (image files), Procedural generation, Action Replay, World Wide Web, Minimal application deployment, Significant Audio

== Participation ==

List your name if you are considering entering the competition. You may enter at any time, but we would like to get a measure of interest before the commencement of the competition.

''List details below:''
* Clonkadonk, by Marcus "schmrkc" Eskilsson.
* Littleedge Game Cauldron, Michael "Guthur" Compton
* -, by Eric "ericbb" Bergstrome
* Puzzle Dance Party Extreme --- David O'Toole, source here https://github.com/dto/puzzle-dance/tree/develop
* Something Shiny, by Brian "wubo" Taylor
* A game-like, by Lyndon "humasect" Tremblay
* --, by Daniel "valium97592" Valio
[[Category:Contest]]
[[Category:Community Event]]
__NOTOC__