You probably noticed all the parentheses. The heavy use of parentheses marks [[Lisp]] off from 
other languages and makes it feel unfamiliar. But once you are able to 
read and write the basics, it all falls together naturally. The 
unusual syntax of [[Lisp]] is actually the key to many of its coolest 
features. 
 
Matching up parentheses and indenting things properly is best handled 
automatically by a text editor with support for editing [[Lisp]] code, 
such as [http://www.vim.org Vim], which can be used with [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2531 Slimv] --- the Superior Lisp 
Interaction Mode for Vim. Lots of people use the [http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs GNU Emacs] text editor along 
with [http://common-lisp.net/project/slime/ Slime], the Superior Lisp Interaction Mode for Emacs---both written in [[EmacsLisp]].

* New link: [https://vimeo.com/38372260/ A video about] using clojure with [[SLIMV]].
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKFcznZ28BE Video about Emacs and Slime]
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_B_4vhsmRRI Longer, more comprehensive Slime video]
 
As far as [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software Free software] goes, one of these two options---Emacs with Slime, or Vim with Slimv---is 
probably the best way to develop and test [[Lisp]] code.
With Slime or Slimv you can edit Lisp code efficiently, send 
commands to the underlying Lisp environment, or redefine methods and functions in order to alter object behaviors 
while the system is running. (You don't get this benefit of instant updates if you don't have an editor that can communicate with your running Lisp application.)
 
Both Emacs and Vim are highly customizable development environments, 
not just text editors. They're worth learning. Furthermore, Emacs and Vim are [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software Free software], will run on basically 
any platform, are of very high quality, and have large, friendly user 
communities. 
 
That being said, you can edit Lisp code in basically any text editor, 
and it's quite possible that the text editor you already use has a 
plugin or script available for editing Lisp code and matching those 
parentheses. If you're unsure about Vim and Emacs, try looking around 
to see if you can find Lisp support for your existing editor.