'''Welcome to the Lisp Games Wiki!'''

This wiki is the Official Community Portal (TM) of the Lisp Games community, devoted to creating games and other interactive multimedia constructions with the programmable programming language, [[Lisp]], in its various dialects: [[CommonLisp]], [[Scheme]], [[Clojure]], [[Parenscript]], [[Clojurescript]], [[EmacsLisp]], and others. These user-editable pages are for YOU: people sharing information, links, and discussions related to Lisp Games Development.

We've been updating the wiki to make it a more comprehensive resource for the Lispgames community. If you'd like to help out, please create a github account and start adding ideas, questions, or links to your own or others' projects. Or join #lispgames on freenode to chat with someone. (See [https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/ Github Flavored Markdown] for hints on editing.)

== Current News ==

[[User:samvv|samvv]] has finished refactoring his [[Racket gaming]] library from years ago. Featuring an embedded high-performance physics engine, this library aims high!

[[User:davexunit|davexunit]] is working on [[guile-2d]], a library for making 2D games in GNU Guile Scheme.

[[User:dto|dto]] is working on a "howto" to build any lisp program on GNU/Linux, OSX and Windows with [ https://github.com/dto/2x0ng 2x0ng] as an example.

In a recent release of [http://www.sbcl.org/ SBCL] (version 1.1.9) the problems with Windows 7 64-bit crashes was solved. Supposedly the Vista version isn't perfectly fixed yet, as been reported by [[User:dto|dto]].

[[User:add|add]] have revived [[User:cupe|cupe]]'s old project perfectstorm along with the other active members on lispgames. Link to the original blogpost: [http://erleuchtet.org/2008/03/project-overview-perfectstorm.html erleuchtet.org] and to the current repo on github: [https://github.com/lispgames/perfectstorm lispgames/perfectstorm]

[[User:psilord|psilord]] has made recent updates to his schmup [https://github.com/psilord/option-9 option-9].

[[User:BradWBeer|warweasle]] is updating the [https://github.com/BradWBeer/clinch Clinch Game Engine] and approaching release 0.5. This will be a transition from Clinch being just a graphics engine to being a game engine. Features will include automatic garbage collection, SDL2 integration, cl-ODE Physics plugin, Slime integration, Frame Buffer Objects, modern nodes, and tools to make shaders simpler. 

In other news, [[User:dto|dto]] have renamed blocky to *drumroll* xelf. Link here: [http://xelf.me/ xelf homepage] and here: [https://github.com/dto/xelf on github]

[[User:vydd|vydd]] is working on [https://github.com/vydd/sketch Sketch].


[[User:axionix|axion]] is working on a set of game utilities, such as a [http://git.axity.net/axion/crawler random dungeon generator], random encounter generator, and other generic things that could be used in mostly any genre.

== New about these parts? == 
[[What is Lisp?]]

[[Why use Lisp for games?]]

== Resources, by dialect ==

Lisp is a family of languages and each can have different libraries available. Check out what is particular to each dialect below.

[[CommonLisp]], [[Scheme]], [[Clojure]], [[Clojurescript]], [[EmacsLisp]], [[Parenscript]]

== Non Lisp Specific Resources == 

Many challenges in game development are relevant to all languages. The links below are not necessarily about Lisp but may be very useful.

[[Non Lisp Specific Resources]]

== Free Art & Audio Assets ==
Though it's very unlikely you'd be able to find enough free assets to make your game from while keeping a consistent style, free art assets can be very handy as placeholders in your game to help give others (and yourself!) a glimpse of where the game is heading. It can be very hard to inspire people to the noble effort of a orphan cube, battling for justice and vengeance against the hoards of malevolent spheres!

* Stock Art/Audio: 
** [http://lostgarden.com/labels/free%20game%20graphics.html LostGarden]
** [http://opengameart.org Open Game Art]
** [http://openclipart.org/tags/game OpenClipArt]
** [http://www.freesound.org/ FreeSound.org]
** [http://game-icons.net/ game-icons.net]
** [https://archive.org/details/Sound_Effects], [https://archive.org/details/Sound_Effects_2]

== Open issues and projects == 

* [[EditorSupportForLisp]] 
* Identifying [[UsefulApplications]] for Lisp game developers.
* Building various [[GameCreationEnvironments]].
* [[CloMotion]] ideas and resources for motion control in Lisp gaming.
* Collecting [[Education]] resources. [[ObstaclesToLispNewcomers]] [[GoodFreeDocumentationElsewhere]]
* Planning the [[Next Lisp Game Dev Competition]].
* Using [https://bitbucket.org/elliottslaughter/blackthorn-engine Blackthorn Starter Pack].
* Automating build process and packaging of binaries/libs/assets for all available platforms. See [[QuickLisp]].
* Engine and language-agnostic DAM (digital asset management) tools. See [[AssetManagement]].
* Working with others to add new platforms. [[PlatformSupport]]
* Writing [[Articles| Lisp Game Development Articles]].
* Collecting [[Lessons Learned|Lessons learned, Questions and Answers]].

=== Wiki Todo List ===

Here are some pages you could write or add to: 

* Page generally describing [[Lisp]], hopefully written in a manner [[AccessibleToNewcomers]].
* Collect more dialect-specific resources: [[CommonLisp]], [[Scheme]], [[Clojure]], [[EmacsLisp]], [[GOAL]], [[Parenscript]], [[Clojurescript]] 
* A permanent [[LispGamesArchive]] that people could donate things to, sort of like the Interactive Fiction Archive.
* [[ObstaclesToLispNewcomers]], [[CoolThingsWeShouldKnowAbout]]
* [[AboutThisWiki]] with information describing the administrative details and history of this wiki, website and domain (who, what, how, when)

== #lispgames games == 
* [[Lispstone]] is an arcade card game written in Common Lisp using cl-sdl2.
* [[sudoku-lisp]] is a simple sudoku player written in Common Lisp using lispbuilder-sdl.

== Lisp Games In The Wild ==
Some games written using lisp-family languages.

* [http://sourceware.org/xconq/ Xconq] is a free strategy game that uses GDL (a declarative Lisp-like syntax) to define its war scenarios.
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abuse_%28video_game%29 Abuse] was a great action game that used Lisp for scripting its game logic.
* Jak and Daxter (Naughty Dog) was apparently partly written in a custom Lisp dialect called [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_Oriented_Assembly_Lisp GOAL]. See also this [http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?LispInJakAndDaxter C2 wiki page on LispInJakAndDaxter]
* [[Common Worm]]
* [[Farmageddon]]
* [[Starwar]]

== Community ==

* IRC: chat.freenode.net #lispgames #lisp and #scheme
* [http://twitter.com/lispgames lispgames on Twitter]
* [http://lisp-qix.blogspot.com WarWeasle's Qix/CLinch blog]


----

(ᗧ*) Lisp Games Wiki