Many challenges in game development are relevant to all languages. The links below are not necessarily about Lisp but may be very useful.
These links are those that are suitably lisp agnostic or are written in another language entirely.

=== Functional Game Programming ===
* [http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Yampa Functional Reactive Programming with Yampa (Haskell)]
* [http://www.altdevblogaday.com/2012/04/26/functional-programming-in-c/ John Carmack on functional programming in c++]
* [http://www.idt.mdh.se/utbildning/exjobb/files/TR0811.pdf HaGPipe A DSL for programming the entire graphical pipeline (Haskell) (pdf)]
* [http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~pls/thesis/munc-thesis.pdf Functional Programming and 3D Games (pdf) (haskell)]

=== Graphics ===
* [[Opengl Resources]]
* [http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/OpenGL_Programming#Modern_OpenGL Modern OpenGL (gl) (wiki or pdf)] This creative commons wikibook is a good place to get started with opengl as it uses v2.1 which is common and also the programmable pipeline, which is essential to modern game graphics.

=== Procedural Media Generation  ===
* [http://www.ii.uib.no/~knute/lsystems/lsystems.final.ps.gz L-Systems, Twinning Plants, Lisp (postscript) (cmucl)] LSystems were introduced as a mathematical model for cellular plant growth and are commonly used in the games industry for generating all manner of plants from tiny flowers to palm trees.

=== Pages of Links ===
Some people have collected a fantastic swathe of links themselves. Rather than reproduce them all here go have a gander at their sites.
* [http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~amitp/gameprog.html Amit's Games Programming Information]

=== Code ===
Some code is so well written it can be read for inspiration for your own Lisp projects, if you want to see working implementations of game elements, see the following
* [http://www.ogre3d.org/ Ogre3D] Ogre is written in c++ and is incredibly clean and readable as well as being open source.

=== Maths ===
Games are made of math! The better grasp you have on how the maths works, the easier some of the mental juggling of game mechanics can be.
* [http://www.khanacademy.org/math/linear-algebra Khan Academy - Linear Algebra] This is not game orientated but a lot of what you learn here will be directly relevent to game programming. Also Khan's teaching style is excelent.
* [http://www.euclideanspace.com/ Martin Baker's All-Inclusive Learning Site For 3D Math, Graphics, Physics, Computational Geometry, And More.] Includes topics on learning how to program games.
* [http://www.gamedev.net/page/resources/_/technical/math-and-physics/a-simple-quaternion-based-camera-r1997A Simple Quaternion-based Camera]
* [http://cxc.cfa.harvard.edu/mta/ASPECT/matrix_quat_faq/ Matrix and Quaternion FAQ]lots of info on matrix transformations & quaternion rotations. 

=== Help! ===
Although there isn't much lisp specific info in the sites below, many issues crop up in all languages so these are worth a gander.
* [http://gamedev.stackexchange.com/ Game Development Stack Exchange]

== Books ==
Unfortunately, unless you are some kind of digital bloodhound, you may struggle to piece together all the disparate information regarding game development online. Sometimes you just can't beat a good book.

* [http://www.amazon.com/Essential-Mathematics-Interactive-Applications-Edition/dp/0123742978 Essential Mathematics for Games and Interactive Applications]
* [http://www.amazon.com/Game-Engine-Architecture-Jason-Gregory/dp/1568814135 Game Engine Architecture]
* [http://www.amazon.com/Real-Time-Rendering-Third-Edition-Akenine-Moller/dp/1568814240 Real-Time Rendering]

== Interesting Paper References ==

These papers are of neat, interesting, or seminal works concerning the field of computer graphics, game design,
game theory, mathematics, sound, sound design, art materials and techniques, and anything else related to 
game design in all aspects. 

If a paper describes an algorithm and it states it is patent free, it should be notated in the linked description.
Also, please denote the year of the paper. 

* Splat Based Rendering
** [http://graphics.ucsd.edu/~matthias/Papers/HighQualitySplattingOnGPUs.pdf High-Quality Surface Splatting on Today’s GPUs (2005)]


== PBR ==

http://www.frostbite.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/course_notes_moving_frostbite_to_pbr_v2.pdf
http://blog.selfshadow.com/publications/s2013-shading-course/karis/s2013_pbs_epic_notes_v2.pdf

== The Rendering Pipeline ==

https://fgiesen.wordpress.com/2011/07/09/a-trip-through-the-graphics-pipeline-2011-index/
this is a near unparalled resourse on how your GL/DirectX and your GPU are doing stuff.
This is still relevent today (2016)

== Polygonization of Voxel Fields ==

https://www.cs.rice.edu/~jwarren/papers/dmc.pdf a big improvement over marching cubes

== Tonemapping ==

http://filmicgames.com/archives/75 really nice code samples for tonemapping

== Thanks ==
A big thank-you to all those who wrote the articles and compiled link pages (big shout out to ogre wiki also which has been the source for a load of the above)