This page collects information on various free applications useful to
Lisp game developers. Many non-Lisp applications provide Lisp
extensibility or bindings.

=Text Editors=

* [http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs GNU Emacs] is a popular Emacs-like editor with excellent support for multiple dialects of Lisp via [http://common-lisp.net/project/slime/ SLIME].
* [http://www.vim.org/ VIM (VI Improved)] is a vi-like editor popular with people who don't like Emacs, which also has a SLIME-like [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2531 Lisp tool called SLIMV].
* [http://projects.gnome.org/gedit/ Gedit] is the official general-purpose text editor of GNOME.
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vile_(editor) VILE] adds some features of Emacs to a vi-like editor.

=Lisp-extensible applications=

* [http://www.gimp.org The GIMP] image editor has Lisp-fu.
* The [https://ccrma.stanford.edu/software/snd/ SND audio editor] is a sort of "audio Emacs" using Scheme. Like Emacs, SND has a high learning curve, is highly extensible, and pretty high quality.
* [http://eca.cx/ecasound/ Ecasound] is easy to extend with Emacs Lisp. I would like to convert these to Common Lisp at some point.
* [http://milkytracker.org/ Milkytracker], aside from being a lot of fun, produces XM music files whose musical cues can be triggered from Common Lisp via [[Lispbuilder-SDL]].
* [http://www.csounds.com/ CSound] has both Emacs Lisp and Common Lisp interoperability, with a range of interactive Emacs tools as well.

=Useful, but not currently Lisp-extensible=

Please correct any entries I'm wrong about.

* [http://www.ardour.org/ Ardour] is a free digital audio workstation (DAW).
* [http://audacity.sourceforge.net Audacity] for sound editing.
* [http://www.blender.org Blender] is an open source 3D graphics suite.
* [http://www.inkscape.org InkScape] is an open source vector graphics editor.
* [http://puredata.info/ Pure Data] for audio synthesis and processing. 
* [http://dssi.sourceforge.net/hexter.html Hexter] is a free Yamaha DX-7 software emulator.