XE2 is a Common Lisp 2D game engine developed by [[User:dto1138]]. It
uses its own custom prototype-based object system called CLON.

CLON uses a message passing model, so instead of being limited to
straight function calls, you can optionally queue up, process,
redirect, and forward messages very freely. Because there are no
classes to restrict what methods may be invoked where, and because
most of the XE2 engine's functionality is implemented in the same
language as the gameworld and its behaviors, I've found that
programming games with CLON has a bit of the "plug anything into
anything" flavor that people attribute to "entity systems". However,
CLON is not an entity system, and is rather more Smalltalk-inspired.
Instead of class inheritance relationships determining control flow,
objects can discriminate amongst themselves by categorizing each other
with "tags" such as "actor" "opaque" "obstacle" "enemy" and so on.

CLON and XE2 are presently in beta, but
[http://dto.github.com/notebook/games.html several working games] have
been delivered for the PC platform (Win/Mac/Linux). I'm currently
making improvements in ease of use and adding developer documentation
to prepare for a 1.0 release of XE2. I am also working on an
interactive game creator/editor called XIOMACS but that is a
longer-term concern.

== Features ==

* 2D grid-based worlds, with additional sprite support. Very useful for grid-based roguelike-ish games, but the sprite support has been changing that and making it more broadly useful.
* Uses [[Lispbuilder-SDL]] for cross-platform 2D graphics, sound effects, ogg and xm music, et cetera.
* Basic procedural content tools, including turtle graphics, generating sentences from context-free grammars, and plasma noise.
* Map editor (working, but in progress: see [http://www.youtube.com/watch?vE5KmZxQxiJ0 this video] for a demo.)
* Both turnbased and real-time play supported
* GUI widgets: formatted text output, simple text editing, an extensible interactive command prompt, and more.
* Ray-casting based lighting effects and line-of-sight.
* A-star pathfinding.

== Links ==

* [http://dto.github.com/notebook/xe2.html XE2 homepage with documentation.]
* [http://dto.github.com/notebook/games.html Information about my games made with XE2]
* [http://github.com/dto/xe2 XE2 Github repository]
* [http://github.com/dto/clon CLON Github repository]

[[Category:Common Lisp]]
[[Category:2d]]
[[Category:Game Engine]]
[[Category:Library]]
[[Category:Graphics]]
[[Category:Audio]]